# Capstone Portfolio

## Capabilities statement

My name is Jade, I am a student finishing up my degree with a capstone project as well as working fulltime as a security engineer. I have used my experience in consulting and security to guide the project towards developing a meaningful project.
During the project I took on the role as team leader ensuring all students had the help they needed as well as the information necessary to finish their tasks.

###### Skills:
- Leadership
- Project Management
- Security assessments
- Enterprise Security Knowledge

## Project assets:

The project is hosted on WordPress and intended to show a MVP
http://www.sitidentify.live/

## Project Introduction

The aim of the project is to deliver a self-assessment of the NIST framework that will be used by Australian business. The question set will be tested and validated with real world scenarios to ensure questions are easily consumable. The NIST framework will have a heavy consulting aspect once an assessment is completed, this will be completed by Deakin students in the cybersecurity degree with the help of an industry professional.

NIST Questionnaire – This takes the NIST cyber security framework and creates a question set for each function; Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, Recover. 

*The website is currently built to show POC but is not a deliverable of the project.*

Website – The website is the main contact point for Customers. The website has a full NIST questionnaire, and reporting function. The website is tied into central systems for reporting, CRM, and a wiki. 


My role in the project was team leader. In this role I was responsible for project direction, task allocation, and management duties. The role functioned very similar to what a project manager would do in an enterprise.

The project went through 2 large changes over the 2 capstone units. The first change was to define what the project was delivering and the outcomes we were delivering to. We had a question set but decided it did not meet the project needs or requirements we set out. We then developed a much more useful NIST assessment method based on a maturity model.

###### Project Contribution
My role as team leader focused on establishing the project outcomes, and ensuring we all had tasks, knew what to do, and make decisions about project direction.

** you will need access to _[this](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3a083bb410c7b54405aa510e355204da69%40thread.skype/conversations?groupId=9b3f6292-dea5-4167-9bdb-56c751f5b0a3&tenantId=d02378ec-1688-46d5-8540-1c28b5f470f6)_ teams project to view link. **

When the project started there was no solution documents or project outcomes that would enable the project to measure success. The first deliverables I made were the Solution On A Page (SOAP) as well as the High Level Solution Design (HLSD).

[SOAP](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/file/C0B6D459-0B2D-436C-9BAE-101CBFFF8E59?tenantId=d02378ec-1688-46d5-8540-1c28b5f470f6&fileType=docx&objectUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fdeakin365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FCSRI-IDENTIFY-Group2%2FShared%20Documents%2FGeneral%2FProject%20Proposal%2FCSRI%20-%20SOAP.docx&baseUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fdeakin365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FCSRI-IDENTIFY-Group2&serviceName=teams&threadId=19:083bb410c7b54405aa510e355204da69@thread.skype&groupId=9b3f6292-dea5-4167-9bdb-56c751f5b0a3)

[HLSD](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/file/9D96C900-67BB-41FE-A2C7-D9CDC206EF77?tenantId=d02378ec-1688-46d5-8540-1c28b5f470f6&fileType=docx&objectUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fdeakin365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FCSRI-IDENTIFY-Group2%2FShared%20Documents%2FGeneral%2FProject%20Proposal%2FCSRI%20-%20HLSD%20Website.docx&baseUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fdeakin365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FCSRI-IDENTIFY-Group2&serviceName=teams&threadId=19:083bb410c7b54405aa510e355204da69@thread.skype&groupId=9b3f6292-dea5-4167-9bdb-56c751f5b0a3)

The project was also tracking progress and tasks though a messy excel spreadsheet, I also moved tasks to Planner a team’s module for task allocation. This allowed for a more interactive experience as well as buckets so we could run the project with sprints easily.

[Planner](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/com.microsoft.teamspace.tab.planner/_djb2_msteams_prefix_2239324000?context=%7B%22subEntityId%22%3Anull%2C%22channelId%22%3A%2219%3Ac20cfd706b194a0fabc1bb724578c2c3%40thread.skype%22%7D&groupId=9b3f6292-dea5-4167-9bdb-56c751f5b0a3&tenantId=d02378ec-1688-46d5-8540-1c28b5f470f6)

By using planner we were able to achieve all tasks for each sprint due to being able to easily monitor and track progress. 

During the project we have not had a sponsor or client. So far, the only feedback we have gotten is from the supervisor and the head of cyber a Deakin who we presented the project to. The meeting confirmed we were on the right track and gave pointers on what we could do better to improve the questions. One of the suggestions was testing the NIST model on many different departments at Deakin.

By far the biggest asset delivered by the project was the NIST question set. The question set was based on a maturity model 0-4. Zero being no capability, and 4 industry leading. This question set has been completed, and partly reviewed but no changes have yet been made. My contribution in to this document was writing 2 category sections in the document.

** The following shows my contribution to _[this](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/file/25474B78-62C8-45F6-8602-7C46BB3FB850?tenantId=d02378ec-1688-46d5-8540-1c28b5f470f6&fileType=xlsx&objectUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fdeakin365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FCSRI-IDENTIFY-Group2%2FShared%20Documents%2FGeneral%2FNIST%20Question%20Set.xlsx&baseUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fdeakin365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FCSRI-IDENTIFY-Group2&serviceName=teams&threadId=19:083bb410c7b54405aa510e355204da69@thread.skype&groupId=9b3f6292-dea5-4167-9bdb-56c751f5b0a3)_ spreadsheet. ** 

###### Identity Management, Authentication and Access Control (PR.AC): Access to physical and logical assets and associated facilities is limited to authorised users, processes, and devices, and is managed consistent with the assessed risk of unauthorised access to authorised activities and transactions


Tier 1|Tier 2|Tier 3|Tier 4
---|---|---|---
Identities and credentials are manually created with no review periods or access control processes in place. There is no register of users and the roles they have.|Identities and credentials are manually created. There are review periods and access control processes in place but not enforced. There is a complete register of users and the roles they have. Identities and roles are documented in policy and procedure.|Identities and credentials are centrally managed with a mix of automated and manual fulfilment. There are mandatory review periods/ with all access being logged. There is a complete register of users and roles that is regularly updated and reviewed for completeness.  Identities and roles are documented and regularly updated.|All Identities and credentials are centrally managed. All access is logged and federated. Role access is automatically granted/ revoked and managed based on set time periods. There is a automated process for access review. This system is core and relied upon by the business for all role and access based events.
Physical access is  not managed/ there is no log or sign in process to access assets. All assets are not secured.|All assets are secured. There is a log book for access to assets but it is not enforced.  There may be multiple way to access assets. There are some controls in place to limit physical access to business laptops and phones for non business personal. There is documents and policy for physical access.|All assets are secure. Physical access is heavily monitored with one central register and one way to access. All personal granted access and vetted and monitored. All mobile assets have effective controls in place to stop access (i.e. sub read/write block). There are documents and policy for physical access that is regularly reviewed and updated.|All assets are secure. Physical access is heavily monitored with one central register and one way to access. All personal granted access and vetted and monitored. All mobile assets have effective controls in place to stop access (i.e. sub read/write block). There is a comprehensive review process for all physical access controls to keep pace with emerging threats.
Remote access is made available/ there is limited to no control over who can get access. Access is via local accounts/ with no control of where access is from.|Remote access is granted via roles/ with limited permissions. Remote access is limited to certain networks and addresses. Documents are produced for remote access roles.|Remote Access is centrally managed via federated accounts with limited permissions. No local accounts are used. Remote access is locked to local networks only or over VPN. All remote access is logged. Documents are produced for remote access roles/ reviewed and updated regularly.|Remote Access is centrally managed via federated accounts with limited permissions. There is 2FA on all remote access. No local accounts are used. Remote access is locked to local networks only or over VPN. No unauthorised device can access the network or connect to the network. All remote access is logged. Controls are regularly reviewed for effectiveness and completeness. 
There is little to no attempt to implement or follow principals of least privilege and separation of duties. Documentation is insufficient and not comprehensive.|Access permissions and roles follow least privilege and separation of duties. Systems document their roles and privileges.|Access permissions and roles follow least privilege and separation of duties. Systems document their roles and privileges and are updated regularly as changes occur.|Access permissions and roles follow least privilege and separation of duties. Systems document their roles and privileges and are updated regularly as changes occur. Permissions are tested for effectiveness/ and users roles are reviewed for separation of duties.
There is little to no control of data flows/ connections or lateral movement. Documentation is non-existent or rarely updated. The network has little to no cross environment restrictions and traffic can flow freely. There is no system for monitoring network traffic and connections like IDS or IPS.|Data flows are implemented on an ad hoc basis/ the flow is documented but not maintained. Environments are segregated/ with firewall rules documented/ but not reviewed or maintained or any sort of regular basis. There is a form of network monitoring like IDS but it is retroactive.  The environments are separated with control over cross environment access.  Documentation is not updated as the systems change.|All network traffic internal/ incoming and departing is monitored and controlled.  Sessions are controlled by auto logout and permission management. There is IDS/IPS in the network that reports into central event management systems. All data and network flows across environments/ incoming and departing are documented/ and updated as changes occur. there are mandatory review periods for all firewall rules. There are network and application level controls on network traffic. Lateral Movement is hard to achieve in the network.|All network traffic internal/ incoming and departing is monitored and controlled based on business policy. Sessions are controlled by auto logout and permission management. There is IDS/IPS in the network that reports into central event management systems/ the events are auto resolved and hole fixed. All data and network flows across environments/ incoming and departing are documented/ and automatically updated as changes occur. There are mandatory review periods for all firewall rules and comprehensive data flow maps. There are network and application level controls on network traffic. Lateral movement is hard to achieve in the network.
The business has very weak access control policies. It lacks strong password protection/ encryption/ authentication controls personnel screening procedures. Little to no policies for physical access are being practised.|Organisation has identities sourced from 1 or multiple central systems. The majority of systems use federated credentials and the systems might not able to handle the separation of privileges effectively. They might struggle to recognize/ detect and deter internal threats due to weak access controls.|The business has 1 central credential system/ with all access being federated to the central system. The Majority of systems are able to handle the separation of privileges/ strong encryption/ password protection as well as multi environment access controls well. All access to systems are using federated identities with logging of all access.|The business has 1 central credential system/ with all access being federated to that system. All of systems are able to handle the separation of privileges/ strong encryption/ password protection as well as multi environment access controls well. All access to internal and external systems are using federated identities with logging of all access. The identity system is regularly tested for control effectiveness/ and maintained automatically for completeness. 
The business has lax policies regarding authorisation and access to its resources. It has no multi-factor auth for admin accounts. Little to no auto lockout measures have been implemented. There is no attempt the disseminate the documentation or policy about authentication and correct device use.|The business has adequate identification/ multi factor authorisation for some of its vital processes/ the auto lockouts are effective but can be circumvented with some effort. There are limits to the actions that can be performed and information that can be accessed without authorisation. There is a sensible implementation of group/ device identification and authentication. Most of the regulatory and policy requirements are followed. Documentation is available but not embedded in process.|The business has strict identification/ multi factor authorisation and auto lockouts for the users on standard and admin accounts. All privilege access is using 2-FA. The public side of the business is accessible however the information and actions permitted are filtered for security threats. The group and device privileges are effectively implemented and reviewed regularly. The business also follows all the federal/ regulatory and policy guidelines with documentation forming part of build process and training.|The business has strict identification/ multi factor authorisation and auto lockouts for the users. All privileged access is using 2-FA using soft or hard tokens. All  MFA controls are tested and checked for effectiveness as part of implementation. The business stringently follows all the policy and regulatory guidelines. The group and device privileges go through regular reviews and are dynamically implemented. The public facing side is actively monitored for any threats/ attacks and information leaks while keeping it accessible.

###### Data Security (PR.DS): Information and records (data) are managed consistent with the business’s risk strategy to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information.

Tier 1|Tier 2|Tier 3|Tier 4
---|---|---|---
There is little attempt to provide staff with cyber awareness education and training and/or staff have little to no knowledge of companies cyber security policies.|Cyber security education and awareness training is available to staff. Staff are made aware of company security policies as part of induction.|Staff are regularly trained and educated on best cyber security practices. Measures are in place to ensure that all staff adhere to companies cyber security policies.|Staff are required to attend regular mandatory cyber awareness training and are tested regularly on cyber security policies. Education programs have been established to manage regular mandatory training.
There is little to no attempt to provide role based training to staff to give a better under standing of the responsibility that comes with their level of access. Staff have little to no understanding of access responsibilities.|Role based training is made available to staff to give a better understanding of access permissions and responsibilities. Staff are made aware of their responsibilities based on permissions and access.|Staff are provided regular role based training to give a better understanding of permissions/ access and responsibilities. Staff are aware of their roles and responsibilities.|Regular mandatory role based training is performed and gaps are identified to ensure staff are fully aware and compliant about their access roles and responsibility.
There is little to no attempt to provide role based training to third-party stakeholders. Third-party stakeholders have little to no idea what their access level is and responsibilities that come with this access.|Role based training is made available to third-party stakeholders. Third-party stakeholders have a good understanding of their access responsibilities.|All third-party stakeholders are provided role based training during induction. Roles are made known to all third-party stakeholders and access responsibilities are made clear.|Regular role based training is mandatory for all third-party stakeholders. All third-party stakeholders are fully aware of their roles and access responsibilities at all times.
There is little to no attempt to provide role based training to senior executives. Senior executives have little to no understanding of their role and responsibility.|Role based training is made available to senior executives to give a better understanding of the level of responsibility that comes with their role. Senior executives have a good understanding of their role and access responsibilities.|All senior executives are provided role based training to ensure they are aware of their responsibility based on their escalated executive access. Senior executives are fully aware of their role and responsibilities.|Senior executives are to undertake regular role based training. All senior executives are fully aware of their role and access responsibilities at all times.
There is little to no attempt to provide role based training to cyber security professionals. Cyber security professionals have little to no understanding of their role and access responsibility's.|Role based training is made available to cyber security professionals. Cyber security professionals have a good understanding of their role and their access responsibilities.|All cyber security professionals are provided role based training upon inductions to ensure they are aware of their role and access responsibilities. Cyber security professionals are fully aware of their role and responsibilities.|Cyber security professionals are to undertake regular role based training. All cyber security professionals are fully aware of their role and access responsibilities at all times.


## Summary

Over the capstone my contribution was mainly towards the project direction by producing the project documentation. The SOAP documentation outlines project direction as well as provides how to measure success, and what is in scope and out of scope. The HLSD outlines how the project could be built, as the website is only part of the MVP. I contributed to task completion by working with the team to complete the NIST questions. Without my contribution the project would not have the necessary documentation like HLSD and SOAP. I also used by experience to ensure the project was on a successful path.
